Create contributing to ros (#6918)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Contributing-To-ROS.rst

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Contributing to design involves shaping how features are structured and interact, ensuring they are intuitive, scalable, and aligned with user needs.

Join a discussion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Taking part in discussions involves contributing ideas and feedback about how features and systems can be designed and improved.
Every contribution is valuable, even small questions or suggestions.
If you are a more experienced contributor, you can help shape design decisions, evaluate different approaches, and guide the overall direction of the project.

**Ready to contribute?**

* Join an ongoing discussion, and share your thoughts: `Open Robotics Discourse <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/111/>`__

Suggest a feature
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

ROS continues to evolve, and suggesting features is a valuable way to help improve the experience for everyone.
If you spot ways ROS can be improved, you can add your enhancement suggestion to the relevant issue tracker for others to review and support.
Don't forget to check the existing list of requests first!

**Ready to contribute?**

1. Check the if the enhancement idea has already been suggested in the following:

>    * `Feature idea list <https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/The-ROS2-Project/Feature-Ideas.html>`_ (CORRECT LINK TO BE PROVIDED)

Reviewer: I checked with mjc and it seems they're now using GitHub Projects for this. The Project will vary by release, but the general, top-level link is https://github.com/orgs/ros2/projects?query=is%3Aopen

Author: @vmbrasseur  - we've added the links provided by Geoff. Should I update this bullet with the link you have provided:

* Enhancement issues on GitHub.
   For example, take a look at this `list of enhancement requests <https://github.com/ros2/ros2/issues?q=state%3Aopen%20label%3Aenhancement>`_.

Reviewer 2: Yes, please do.

Contributing to ROS
===================

ROS (Robot Operating System) is an open-source ecosystem.
We rely on contributions from our community to help us grow and improve.
This article introduces the ways in which you can contribute to ROS.

**Area: contributing, community | Content-type: about | Experience: beginner, intermediate, expert**

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:

Summary
-------

> ROS is an open source set of tools and libraries that depends on contributions from our community.

Reviewer: set -> suite

> ROS is an open source set of tools and libraries that depends on contributions from our community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ROS is an open source, federated collection of tools and libraries that is built through contributions from our community.
```

Whether you are a developer, researcher, company, or student, your contribution helps us to grow and improve.

Your first contribution
-----------------------

Everyone can contribute to ROS.

> Depending on your skills and experience, you can review and update the ROS documentation, contribute code, or fix issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on your skills and experience, you can review and update the ROS documentation, contribute code, fix issues, review code submitted by others, participate in design discussions, and help others learn to use ROS or overcome their problems.
```

**Complete beginner?**

> * Work through the beginner tutorials, and check them for accuracy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Work through the beginner tutorials, and check them for accuracy or improve explanations.
```

  :ref:`See Test and review documentation <test-and-review-documentation>`

**Getting familiar with ROS?**

* Check the issue lists and fix one of the issues labelled "good first issue".

  :ref:`See Contribute to code <contribute-to-code>`

OR

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

* Triage an issue.

  :ref:`See Triage an issue <triage-an-issue>`

**Experienced robotics developer?**

> * Follow the discussion on Stack Exchange, and offer support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Watch for questions on Robotics Stack Exchange, and offer support.
```

  :ref:`See Provide support <provide-support>` (QUESTION FOR THE REVIEWER: This is a placeholder suggestion.

>   Is there something better we should encourage experienced developers to take on as their first contribution?)

Reviewer: @kscottz @gbiggs Directing experienced devs to RSE seems reasonable. What do y'all think?

Reviewer 3: Sure, the party line lately has been pr reviews, PR REVIEWS, *PR REVIEWS*.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

* Review code submitted by others, to help improvements and bug fixes get merged faster for the benefit of everyone.
```

Contribute to ROS development
-----------------------------

Anyone can contribute to the development of ROS.

> If you are a complete beginner looking for an entry point, start with a simple contribution such as fixing a small issue.

Reviewer: Direct them to the `good first issue` ones?

If you are a more experienced developer, consider contributing at a deeper level by designing new features, reviewing code from other developers, or fixing

> complex issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are a more experienced developer, consider contributing at a deeper level by designing new features, reviewing code from other developers, or fixing complex bugs.
```

.. _contribute-to-code:

Contribute to code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Contributing to our open source code involves reviewing an existing project and making improvements such as fixing issues or developing features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contributing to our open source code involves reviewing an existing project and making improvements such as fixing bugs, improving issues, or developing features.
```

**Ready to contribute?**

1. Familiarize yourself with our developer guidelines and tools.

   `More information is in our developer guide <https://docs.ros.org/en/lyrical/The-ROS2-Project/Contributing/Developer-Guide.html>`_

2. Pick an issue from one of the issue lists:

>    * `Good first issues <https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/issues?q=state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22good%20first%20issue%22>`_

Reviewer 2: @vmbrasseur We need a centralised public list of good first issues, similar to what Kat used to curate.

Reviewer: Queued in Asana.

>    * `Help wanted issues <https://github.com/search?q=user%3Aament+user%3Aros2+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanthttps://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pullsed%22&type=Issues>`_

Reviewer 2: @vmbrasseur Same for this.

Reviewer: Queued in Asana.

3. Fix the issue and submit the pull request.

   More information is in <Placeholder link to new "Make a pull request" article>

> Review a pull request

Reviewer: Suggestion: move this above contributing code.

We need to find a way to encourage more people to do reviews. We're drowning in unreviewed PRs. Putting the review section above the one where they create yet another PR to review is a small thing but subtle sign of the importance of PR review.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewing a pull request involves carefully checking proposed changes to make sure they are correct, well written, and do not introduce issues.
Anyone can review a pull request.
If you are a beginner, reviewing a pull request is a great way to learn the codebase and ask questions where something is unclear.

> If you are a more experienced developer, you can contribute by identifying performance or security issues and ensuring overall code quality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are a more experienced developer, you can contribute by identifying design, performance, or security issues and ensuring overall code quality.
```

**Ready to contribute?**

1. Familiarize your with how to review a pull request.

   More information is in <Placeholder link to new "Reviewing a pull request" article>.

2. Pick an issue from the pull request list: `Pull request list <https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pulls>`_

Contribute to QA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Report an issue
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reporting issues involves identifying and describing problems in the software so they can be understood and fixed.
You can report any issues you encounter with information to help developers quickly diagnose and resolve the issue.
If you are a beginner following a tutorial, for example, you can include the steps needed to reproduce the problem.
If you are a more experienced contributor, you can also provide relevant technical details.

**Ready to contribute?**

* Report your first issue.

More information is in <Placeholder link to new "Reporting an issue" article>

.. _triage-an-issue:

> Triage an issue

Reviewer: Similar suggestion to above: move this section above opening an issue. Triaging is a bottleneck for all projects and we'd like to signal its relative importance.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Triaging an issue involves reviewing the reported issue to understand the problem, assess its impact, and decide what action to take next.
If you are a beginner, you can help by checking whether an issue can be reproduced and providing additional details where needed.
If you are a more experienced contributor, you can prioritize issues, identify root causes, and guide how and when they should be resolved.

**Ready to contribute?**

1. Pick an issue to triage:

   * `General ROS issue tracker <https://github.com/ros2/ros2/issues>`_

>    * Other important issue trackers (QUESTION FOR THE REVIEWER: Are there any other issue trackers you suggest we link to?)

Reviewer: I don't have this knowledge and defer to @kscottz and @gbiggs

Reviewer 3: Most of the issue tracking happens in Waffle which isn't exactly closed, but isn't exactly open either. Opening up waffle has been on the TODO list for awhile.

Reviewer 2: @kscottz Please provide a link that can be included here.

Author: Hi @kscottz - are you able to provide a link to Waffle that we can include?

2. Triage the issue.

   More information is in <Placeholder link to new "Triaging an issue" article>

Report security vulnerabilities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reporting security vulnerabilities involves responsibly identifying and disclosing potential security issues so they can be safely addressed and resolved.

> If you spot a security vulnerability, contact ros@osrfoundation.org

Reviewer: Incorrect. Contact `security@openrobotics.org`.

> If you spot a security vulnerability, contact ros@osrfoundation.org

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you spot a security vulnerability, contact `mailto:security@openrobotics.org`_.
```

Contribute to future design
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Contributing to design involves shaping how features are structured and interact, ensuring they are intuitive, scalable, and aligned with user needs.

Join a discussion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Taking part in discussions involves contributing ideas and feedback about how features and systems can be designed and improved.
Every contribution is valuable, even small questions or suggestions.
If you are a more experienced contributor, you can help shape design decisions, evaluate different approaches, and guide the overall direction of the project.

**Ready to contribute?**

> * Join an ongoing discussion, and share your thoughts: `Open Robotics Discourse <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/ros-general/8 />`__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Join an ongoing discussion, and share your thoughts: `Open Robotics Discourse <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/111 />`__
```

>   (QUESTION FOR THE REVIEWER: Is this the best place to link to?)

Reviewer: My 2¢: link to https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/111

Suggest a feature
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

ROS continues to evolve, and suggesting features is a valuable way to help improve the experience for everyone.
If you spot ways ROS can be improved, you can add your enhancement suggestion to the relevant issue tracker for others to review and support.
Don't forget to check the existing list of requests first!

**Ready to contribute?**

1. Check the if the enhancement idea has already been suggested in the following:

>    * `Feature idea list <https://docs.ros.org/en/kilted/The-ROS2-Project/Feature-Ideas.html>`_ (QUESTION FOR the REVIEWER: Is this list being maintained?)

Reviewer: First, it should probably point to /rolling/, not /kilted/.

Second, it probably shouldn't point there at all since that file [hasn't been updated since 2025](https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/commits/rolling/source/The-ROS2-Project/Feature-Ideas.rst). 😄 

Third, my knowledge fails me here. I don't have a better link to suggest. Tagging in @kscottz and @gbiggs again, who are gonna get a little tired of this. (sorry!)

Author: @kscottz, @gbiggs - can you suggest a 'Feature list idea' link we can add here?

>    * `Feature idea list <https://docs.ros.org/en/kilted/The-ROS2-Project/Feature-Ideas.html>`_ (QUESTION FOR the REVIEWER: Is this list being maintained?)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you spot a way that ROS can be improved, you can post about it to get feedback from the community on its validity.
If your idea is significant enough, it may even be worth making a `Robotics Enhancement Proposal <https://reps.openrobotics.org/>`_ for it.
Don't forget to check the existing list of requests first!

**Ready to contribute?**

1. Check the if the idea has already been suggested:

   * `ROS Ideas category at Discourse <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/ros-ideas/114>`_

   * `Future ROS releases idea list <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/The-ROS2-Project/Feature-Ideas.html>`_
```

   *  Enhancement issues on GitHub.
      For example, take a look at this `list of enhancement requests <https://github.com/ros2/ros2/issues?q=state%3Aopen%20label%3Aenhancement>`_.

> 2. Chat to the ROS community about your suggested enhancement: `ROS Open discussion board <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/111>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Talk to the community about your suggested enhancement in the ROS Ideas category at Discourse <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/ros-ideas/114>`__.
```

> 3. Submit an enhancement suggestion.

Reviewer: Question for @gbiggs: There's no mention in here of a REP. I suspect there should be but you'll know better than I.

Author: @gbiggs - just to follow up on @vmbrasseur's question here. Can you help?

Author: @gbiggs, no need - apologies! I can see you have provided an update for this section.

> 3. Submit an enhancement suggestion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Submit an enhancement suggestion as an issue on the appropriate repository, or, for more significant ideas (and when recommended to do so in discussion about your idea), `submit a new REP <https://reps.openrobotics.org/rep-0001-2025/>`_.
```

>    More information is in <Placeholder link to new "Reporting an issue" article>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   More information on submitting an issue is in <Placeholder link to new "Reporting an issue" article>.
```

Improve graphical interfaces
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

ROS includes a number of graphical interfaces.
Anyone can suggest interface improvements, especially those with UX design experience.
This helps to shape a more intuitive and user-friendly design.

**Ready to contribute?**

* Submit a UI improvement, for example, your suggestion or your design work.

   More information is in <Placeholder link to new "Submitting an issue" article>

> OR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

* Implement a UI improvement.

  :ref:`See Contribute to code <contribute-to-code>`

> Become a core maintainer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Become a project member (maintainer)
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> ROS core maintainers ensure that the project is making progress.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ROS maintainers ensure that the project is making progress.
```

The responsibilities of maintainers include:

* Reviewing incoming code contributions for style, quality, and overall fit into the goals of the repository and ROS

* Ensuring that CI continues to stay green

* Merging pull requests that meet the quality and CI standards

* Addressing issues opened up by users

> A core maintainer is responsible for guiding development, reviewing contributions, and helping ensure the quality and direction of ROS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A maintainer is responsible for guiding development, reviewing contributions, and helping ensure the quality and direction of ROS.
```

> At ROS, there are maintainer roles: as a Committer or a PMC Member.

Reviewer: Suggestion: "…there are two maintainer roles…"

> At ROS, there are maintainer roles: as a Committer or a PMC Member.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At ROS, there are two maintainer roles: as a Committer, or as a Project Management Committee (PMC) Member (all PMC Members are also Committers).
```

> A committer can directly contribute code, while a Project Management Committee (PMC) member helps guide the overall direction and governance of the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Committer can merge pull requests, while a PMC Member helps guide the overall direction and governance of the project.
```

**Ready to contribute?**

> Each repository in the ros2 and ament organizations has a separate set of maintainers.

Reviewer: This may be the first mention of maintainers. You may need to clarify if you mean something different from committer (though IIRC the two are the same). Otherwise you'll want to choose one term and stick with it, adding a "sometimes known as a…" mention somewhere to tie the two together.

Reviewer 4: @vmbrasseur Just checking in on a few open comments to help @sarahfarnborough-3di  out. An FYI that might help with context: a lot of the content within the sections in this article is used as-is from the existing docs. We've added structure and filled in some gaps - but not rewritten sections that already had content. (This case looks like one of those sections - and I can see several more suggestions above for similar contexts.) Happy to make changes while we're in here anyway - but not sure we have the knowledge to decide either way in this instance.

Author: @vmbrasseur - just to answer your question, 'core' maintainers are mentioned in the section above this, which says that there are two types of maintainer roles - committers and PMCs.  This section has been updated with Geoff's suggestions.

Are you able to advise us if we need make any further updates in the 'Ready to contribute' section?

> Each repository in the ros2 and ament organizations has a separate set of maintainers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each core repository in the ROS project has Committers who are responsible for that repository.
```

Reviewer: The correction is a true statement, but I'm not sure it does them much good unless there's some easy way for them to determine who's a Committer for a given project. I may be wrong, but I don't think we have a MAINTAINERS.md or such like in any of the repos?

> Becoming a maintainer of one or more of those repositories is an invitation-only process, and generally involves the following steps:

Reviewer: @gbiggs Are these two items && or || ?

Author: @gbiggs - just following up on @vmbrasseur's question. Are you able to help us here?

Reviewer 2: The current wording (in the changes, not in this review comment's quoted text) is correct.

> Becoming a maintainer of one or more of those repositories is an invitation-only process, and generally involves the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Becoming a committer of one or more of those repositories is process based on mentorship.
The process begins with an existing PMC Member inviting you to be mentored, or you volunteering and finding a PMC Member willing to mentor you.
For full and current details of the process, please see the `ROS Project Charter <https://github.com/openrobotics/osra-policies-and-procedures/blob/main/ros_project_charter.md#article-7-committer>`_.
Generally, you will need to have demonstrated a sustained period of making contributions such as reviewing PRs and submitting PRs before someone is likely to invest time into mentoring you.
```

Reviewer: > Becoming a committer of one or more of those repositories is process based on mentorship.

is a process

* Within the last year, you have made a substantial number of code contributions to the repository.

* Within the last year, you have reviewed a substantial number incoming pull requests to the repository.

Approximately every 3 months, the ROS team will review the contributions in all of the repositories and send out invitations to new maintainers.
Once the invitation is accepted, the new maintainer will be asked to go through a short training process on the mechanisms and policies of the ROS repositories.
After that training process is completed, the new maintainer will be given write access to the appropriate repositories.

> * Guidance for core maintainers: `Ros2 Core Maintainer Guide <https://docs.ros.org/en/kilted/How-To-Guides/Core-maintainer-guide.html>`_

Reviewer: Should this link be to kilted or rolling?

Reviewer 3: Yes.

> * Guidance for core maintainers: `Ros2 Core Maintainer Guide <https://docs.ros.org/en/kilted/How-To-Guides/Core-maintainer-guide.html>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Guidance for maintainers: `ROS Core Maintainer Guide <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/How-To-Guides/Core-maintainer-guide.html>`_
```

Contribute to documentation

> ---------------------------

Reviewer: Add a "review docs PRs" section?

Contribute to improving and expanding the ROS documentation.

Write and update documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Contributing to ROS documentation is a great way to learn about and improve ROS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contributing to the ROS documentation is a great way to learn about and improve ROS.
```

Writing and updating documentation ensures it stays aligned with the code.

> Whenever you update the code, you should also the documentation so it remains accurate and reliable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whenever you update the code, you should also update the documentation so it remains accurate and reliable.
```

Anyone can help with maintaining the existing documentation.
If you are a beginner, you can help by fixing small issues such as typos or unclear instructions, while more experienced contributors can improve and expand

> documentation for complex features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are a beginner, you can help by fixing small issues such as typos or unclear instructions.
More experienced contributors can improve and expand documentation.
```

**Ready to contribute?**

1. Read our documentation contribution guidelines: <Placeholder link to updated contribution to docs article>.

2. Browse the documentation issue list, and choose an issue to fix: `ROS documentation issue tracker <https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/issues>`_.

3. Update the documentation to fix the issue.

   More information is in <Placeholder link to new "Creating and updating documentation" article>.

.. _test-and-review-documentation:

Test and review documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Testing and reviewing documentation makes sure it is clear, accurate, and easy to follow in practice.
It involves checking that instructions work as expected and reflect how the code behaves.
If you are a beginner, you can follow our tutorials and how-to guides and report anything that is unclear or incorrect.
If you are a more experienced contributor, you can validate technical accuracy, identify gaps, and improve the overall structure and clarity.

**Ready to contribute?**

* Follow a tutorial, how-to guide, or other documentation.

>   If you spot something inaccurate or unclear provide your feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If you spot something inaccurate or unclear, provide your feedback.
```

  More information is in <Placeholder link to new "Reporting an issue" article>

.. _provide-support:

Provide support
---------------

ROS users come from a wide range of technical backgrounds and use different operating systems.
Some are completely new to ROS, so even those with a little experience can play an important role in supporting others as they get started.

> If you notice a question on Robotics Stack Exchange that relates to an issue you have encountered, consider sharing what worked for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you notice a question on `Robotics Stack Exchange <https://robotics.stackexchange.com/>`_ that relates to an issue you have encountered, consider sharing what worked for you.
```

If you aren't entirely sure your answer is correct, just say so.
The community is there to help, and others will step in to clarify or add more detail if needed.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Helping others is also one of the fastest and most effective ways to improve your own ROS knowledge.
Even if you don't know the answer to someone's question immediately, try finding a solution, and when you have one, post that as an answer to the question.

```

**Ready to contribute?**

* Provide pointers on Robotics Stack Exchange: `Robotics Stack Exchange <https://robotics.stackexchange.com/>`_

* Chat with new community members by visiting the official Open Robotics Discourse: `Open Robotics Discourse <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/111>`__

Participate in the community
----------------------------

There are various ways to join the ROS community, allowing you to participate, collaborate, and contribute effectively.
Here are some ways you can join in:

> * Attend events, from local informal meetings to our annual developer conference, `ROSCON <https://roscon.ros.org/OSR/>`_:

Reviewer: Please drop the `/OSR/` from this URL. As-is, it 404s. Plain ol' roscon.ros.org is the way to go.

> * Attend events, from local informal meetings to our annual developer conference, `ROSCON <https://roscon.ros.org/OSR/>`_:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Attend events, from local informal meetings to our annual developer conference, `ROSCon <https://roscon.ros.org/>`_:
```

Reviewer 2: @vmbrasseur Need a link to the events calendar here when it's ready.

   * Community organized events: `View the calendar <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/newembed?
     src=c_3fc5c4d6ece9d80d49f136c1dcd54d7f44e1acefdbe87228c92ff268e85e2ea0@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Etc/UTC/>`__

   * Official Open Robotics events: `View the calendar <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=agf3kajirket8khktupm9go748@group.calendar.google.com&
     ctz=Etc%2FUTC/>`__

* Host an online community group event: `Fill in the form to add your event to the calendar <https://bit.ly/OSRFCalendarForm/>`_
  (QUESTION FOR THE REVIEWER: Is there someone or a channel people can contact if they are thinking of doing this, but need a bit of guidance or support?

>   If so, can we link to that here?)

Reviewer: @kscottz Would you prefer people put something in Zulip if they need this sort of support?

Reviewer 3: Officially the calendar is the location but honestly a post on Discourse works better.

Reviewer 2: Asking on Zulip or Discourse is reasonable.

* Host a local meet-up: `Fill in the form to add your event to the calendar <https://bit.ly/OSRFCalendarForm/>`_

>   (QUESTION FOR THE REVIEWER: Is there someone or a channel people can contact if they are thinking of doing this, but need a bit of guidance or support?

Reviewer: @kscottz Same question here, but the answer would hopefully be temporary. I now have the "docs/packet for meetup people" on my radar.

Author: @vmbrasseur - are you able to help with what we can add here?

  If so, can we link to that here?)

* Join discussion groups and chats:

    * `Discussions <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/c/ros/111>`__

    * `Developer chat <https://openrobotics.zulipchat.com/>`_

Promote ROS
-----------

If you want to get involved in promoting ROS, why not train or mentor others, or host a meetup in your area.

**Ready to contribute?**

* Support people with working through the tutorials, starting with `First steps with ROS <https://docs.ros.org/en/lyrical/First-Steps.html>`_

* Be part of our community on social media: <Placeholder link to ROS sm channel(s)>

>   (QUESTION FOR THE REVIEWER: Can we link to Open Robotics / ROS social media channels?)

Reviewer: I don't have a full list of these yet. It'd be best if we had a list on the website where you could link, but IIRC we don't.

@kscottz Do you have a list for them?

Reviewer 3: Best spot is probably the list of `project resources` on docs.ros.org.

Author: @vmbrasseur - is the list of sm channels available for us to add?

Become an OSRA member
---------------------

Becoming an OSRA member lets you influence the organization's direction, collaborate with a wider community, and contribute more directly to the growth and

> impact of our projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Becoming an OSRA member lets you influence the organization's direction, collaborate with a wider community, and contribute more directly to the growth and impact of our projects.
```

> Learn more about becoming an OSRA member https://osralliance.org/

Reviewer: Direct membership info URL: https://osralliance.org/membership/

But we may want the (linked; the above isn't) link to the OSRA homepage and change the text to something like, "Learn more about OSRA and becoming a member".

> Learn more about becoming an OSRA member https://osralliance.org/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Learn more about becoming an OSRA member <https://osralliance.org/membership/>`_.
```

   * `General ROS issue tracker <https://github.com/ros2/ros2/issues>`_

>    * (LINK TO WAFFLE TO BE PROVIDED)

Reviewer: @kscottz Is [this](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Ac6oj0FaQ5UB__yBdHNAXodbRsszKj_SChm62cpsaS0/edit?gid=130808543#gid=130808543) the correct link?

Question for 3di: Would this be the first time Waffle's mentioned in the docs?

Reviewer 4: @vmbrasseur Yes, we've not heard of it previously. (fyi @sarahfarnborough-3di )

Reviewer 2: That list is just organising some existing issues from GitHub. Because it is more administrative than anything else, I don't think it should be listed, to avoid confusing people.

Author: Thank you for confirming that @gbiggs. I removed the reference to Waffle. Are there any other issue trackers we should add, or just refer users to the general ROS issue tracker?

Once the invitation is accepted, the new maintainer will be asked to go through a short training process on the mechanisms and policies of the ROS repositories.
After that training process is completed, the new maintainer will be given write access to the appropriate repositories.

> * Guidance for core maintainers: `Ros2 Core Maintainer Guide <https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/How-To-Guides/Core-maintainer-guide.html>`_

Reviewer: * Guidance for core maintainers: `ROS2 Core Maintainer Guide <https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/How-To-Guides/Core-maintainer-guide.html>`_

Reviewer: @gbiggs ROS rather than ROS2?

Reviewer 2: Yes.

     ctz=Etc%2FUTC/>`__

* Host an online community group event: `Fill in the form to add your event to the calendar <https://bit.ly/OSRFCalendarForm/>`_

>   You can also ask for help with hosting an event on `Zulip <https://openrobotics.zulipchat.com/Recent>`_ or `Discourse <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/>`_

Reviewer: You can also ask for help with hosting an event on `Zulip <https://openrobotics.zulipchat.com/>`_ or `Discourse <https://discourse.openrobotics.org/>`_

* Host a local meet-up: `Fill in the form to add your event to the calendar <https://bit.ly/OSRFCalendarForm/>`_

>   (LINK TO CHAT BE PROVIDED - ZULIP OR DISCOURSE?)

Reviewer: Zulip is chat: https://openrobotics.zulipchat.com/

Discourse is longer-form discussions.

(yeah, it can get confusing)

Reviewer 2: Use this link; it goes directly to the best channel.

https://openrobotics.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/526027-ROS-General

> * Support people with working through the tutorials, starting with `First steps with ROS <https://docs.ros.org/en/lyrical/First-Steps.html>`_

Reviewer: * Support people with working through the tutorials, starting with `First steps with ROS <https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/First-Steps.html>`_

Reviewer: @gbiggs Correct that this should be rolling, not lyrical?

Reviewer 2: Yes.
